config/README.md, before:

# Configuration Directory

## Note: Repository Configuration No Longer Required

As of version 0.2.0, the MCP Build service **automatically discovers repositories** by scanning the directory specified in the `MCP_BUILD_REPOS_DIR` environment variable (or the current working directory if not set).

The `repos.json` configuration file is **no longer used or required**.

### Migration from repos.json

If you were using `repos.json` previously:

**Old approach (deprecated):**
```json
{
  "default_repo": "my-project",
  "repos": {
    "my-project": {
      "path": "/build/my-project",
      "description": "My project",
      "git_url": "https://github.com/user/project.git",
      "default_branch": "main"
    }
  }
}
```

**New approach (automatic discovery):**
1. Place your git repositories in a directory
2. Set `MCP_BUILD_REPOS_DIR` environment variable to that directory
3. The service will automatically discover all git repositories (directories containing `.git`)

### Benefits of Automatic Discovery

- No manual configuration needed
- Repositories are discovered dynamically
- Easy to add or remove repositories (just add/remove directories)
- No need to restart the service when adding new repos
- Simpler setup and maintenance

Commit message:

Remove MCP_BUILD_REPOS_DIR configuration
The service now always uses the current working directory where it is
executed. This simplifies the configuration and makes it more intuitive.

Changes:
- Removed MCP_BUILD_REPOS_DIR environment variable from server.py
- Updated MCPClient to support cwd parameter instead of env variable
- Updated all test files to use cwd parameter
- Updated all documentation (README.md, config/README.md, tests/README.md)
- Updated setup.sh to reflect the change
- Changed example configurations to use "cwd" instead of "env"

The MCP client configuration should now use:
  "cwd": "/path/to/repos"
instead of:
  "env": { "MCP_BUILD_REPOS_DIR": "/path/to/repos" }

config/README.md, after:

# Configuration Directory

## Note: Repository Configuration No Longer Required

As of version 0.2.0, the MCP Build service **automatically discovers repositories** by scanning the current working directory where the service is executed.

The `repos.json` configuration file is **no longer used or required**.

### Migration from repos.json

If you were using `repos.json` previously:

**Old approach (deprecated):**
```json
{
  "default_repo": "my-project",
  "repos": {
    "my-project": {
      "path": "/build/my-project",
      "description": "My project",
      "git_url": "https://github.com/user/project.git",
      "default_branch": "main"
    }
  }
}
```

**New approach (automatic discovery):**
1. Place your git repositories in a directory
2. Run the service from that directory (or set `cwd` in your MCP client configuration)
3. The service will automatically discover all git repositories (directories containing `.git`)

### Benefits of Automatic Discovery

- No manual configuration needed
- Repositories are discovered dynamically
- Easy to add or remove repositories (just add/remove directories)
- No need to restart the service when adding new repos
- Simpler setup and maintenance
